to advertise means to make information public. but nowadays advertising doesn’t limit itself by a word ‘publicity’. modern advertising has a task to show a product in a positive and pleasant way. it has an aim to make us want to buy it. but how and when did advertising appear?

the advertisement has existed since antiquity time. at first there were murals that informed about gladiator fights. in the middle ages public heralds stood in the centre of the city and gave last news.

in the 15th century there was a good development of printing. after that posters and leaflets appeared. two centuries later the first newspapers began to publish advertisements. but it is the 20th century when advertising really explodes. it followed the invention of radio and tv.

in the united states companies have worked with advertisers since 1930. they invented packaging that had to attract customers. they also created an idea of product placement. it means that a product is shown in the movies. after that it gets well-known and well-sold. for example, it was made with the luxury cars which were shown in james bond films.

nowadays the new territory of commercials is internet with social networks. small software called cookies allows offering ads according to the tastes of internet users. certainly, in the near future the commercial advertising will be personalized for each of us.
i scarcely know where to begin, though i sometimes facetiously place the cause of it all to charley furuseth’s credit.  he kept a summer cottage in mill valley, under the shadow of mount tamalpais, and never occupied it except when he loafed through the winter months and read nietzsche and schopenhauer to rest his brain.  when summer came on, he elected to sweat out a hot and dusty existence in the city and to toil incessantly.  had it not been my custom to run up to see him every saturday afternoon and to stop over till monday morning, this particular january monday morning would not have found me afloat on san francisco bay.

not but that i was afloat in a safe craft, for the martinez was a new ferry-steamer, making her fourth or fifth trip on the run between sausalito and san francisco.  the danger lay in the heavy fog which blanketed the bay, and of which, as a landsman, i had little apprehension.  in fact, i remember the placid exaltation with which i took up my position on the forward upper deck, directly beneath the pilot-house, and allowed the mystery of the fog to lay hold of my imagination.  a fresh breeze was blowing, and for a time i was alone in the moist obscurity—yet not alone, for i was dimly conscious of the presence of the pilot, and of what i took to be the captain, in the glass house above my head.

i remember thinking how comfortable it was, this division of labour which made it unnecessary for me to study fogs, winds, tides, and navigation, in order to visit my friend who lived across an arm of the sea.  it was good that men should be specialists, i mused.  the peculiar knowledge of the pilot and captain sufficed for many thousands of people who knew no more of the sea and navigation than i knew.  on the other hand, instead of having to devote my energy to the learning of a multitude of things, i concentrated it upon a few particular things, such as, for instance, the analysis of poe’s place in american literature—an essay of mine, by the way, in the current atlantic.  coming aboard, as i passed through the cabin, i had noticed with greedy eyes a stout gentleman reading the atlantic, which was open at my very essay.  and there it was again, the division of labour, the special knowledge of the pilot and captain which 
permitted the stout gentleman to read my special knowledge on poe while they carried him safely from sausalito to san francisco.
a red-faced man, slamming the cabin door behind him and stumping out on the deck, interrupted my reflections, though i made a mental note of the topic for use in a projected essay which i had thought of calling “the necessity for freedom: a plea for the artist.”  the red-faced man shot a glance up at the pilot-house, gazed around at the fog, stumped across the deck and back (he evidently had artificial legs), and stood still by my side, legs wide apart, and with an expression of keen enjoyment on his face.  i was not wrong when i decided that his days had been spent on the sea.

“it’s nasty weather like this here that turns heads grey before their time,” he said, with a nod toward the pilot-house.

“i had not thought there was any particular strain,” i answered.  “it seems as simple as a, b, c.  they know the direction by compass, the distance, and the speed.  i should not call it anything more than mathematical certainty.”

“strain!” he snorted.  “simple as a, b, c!  mathematical certainty!”

he seemed to brace himself up and lean backward against the air as he stared at me.  “how about this here tide that’s rushin’ out through the golden gate?” he demanded, or bellowed, rather.  “how fast is she ebbin’?  what’s the drift, eh?  listen to that, will you?  a bell-buoy, and we’re a-top of it!  see ’em alterin’ the course!”

from out of the fog came the mournful tolling of a bell, and i could see the pilot turning the wheel with great rapidity.  the bell, which had seemed straight ahead, was now sounding from the side.  our own whistle was blowing hoarsely, and from time to time the sound of other whistles came to us from out of the fog.

“that’s a ferry-boat of some sort,” the new-comer said, indicating a whistle off to the right.  “and there!  d’ye hear that?  blown by mouth.  some scow schooner, most likely.  better watch out, mr. schooner-man.  ah, i thought so.  now hell’s a poppin’ for somebody!”

the unseen ferry-boat was blowing blast after blast, and the mouth-blown horn was tooting in terror-stricken fashion.

“and now they’re payin’ their respects to each other and tryin’ to get clear,” the red-faced man went on, as the hurried whistling ceased.

his face was shining, his eyes flashing with excitement as he translated into articulate language the speech of the horns and sirens.  “that’s a steam-siren a-goin’ it over there to the left.  and you hear that fellow with a frog in his throat—a steam schooner as near as i can judge, crawlin’ in from the heads against the tide.” xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xjxjj

are you ready for this, amy?” david asked his daughter. the girl finished tying the laces of her old walking boots, looked up and nodded slowly.
“i think so.” they walked along a lane out of the village until they reached a gently winding path that led to the river.
after crossing a wooden bridge, they followed the line of the riverbank, where tall trees kept the hot sun off their heads.
david listened to the chatter of the fast-flowing river. the last time they had come this way, he had listened to a chattering stream of words from his daughter, who had told him about endless adventures and the scandals of friends and classmates. today, as they had crossed the bridge, a little grey and yellow bird had caught her eye. amy’s face had brightened, and the start of a story almost reached her lips, but then she remained silent. the path became steeper, leaving the river and splitting into two parts as they came closer to kinder reservoir. looking at his map, david pointed to the route that climbed above the reservoir. they followed it to the start of a narrow valley, where another steep path ran beside a fast-moving stream. as they climbed higher, amy began to notice the changing landscape. 
the stream was a series of little waterfalls that fell through green ferns and purple heather.

food additives are chemicals added to enhance the appearance, taste, or lifetime of food products. authorities continuously update the lists of the allowed additives and their daily intake limits. thus, authorities and food suppliers strictly monitor additives in food products to guarantee their safety and compliance with national laws and safety criteria. the daily intake of the food colorant sunset yellow is banned in some countries and strictly controlled in others. herein, a chemically modified solid-state potentiometric sensor was fabricated and used for the direct, fast, sensitive and selective assay of sunset yellow in soft drink and pharmaceutical formulation samples. the study optimized the sensor composition and the optimized carbon paste included a novel polymeric ion-exchanger, dioctyl phthalate, chitosan, and calix-[8]-arene and produced a rapid and near-nernstian response of −32.9 ± 0.821 mv per decade for sunset yellow in the concentration range 7.94 × 10−5 m to 1.0 × 10−2 m and in the ph range 5–10. the sensor revealed good selectivity toward sunset yellow in the presence of commonly encountered ionic species. the method was validated according to the international council for harmonization guidelines and the results were statistically comparable to those of a reported method. the solid-state sensor represents a tool for fast and direct assay of sunset yellow in food products without sample pretreatment.

to understand the contributions of rheological properties to microcirculation, the simultaneous measurement of multiple rheological properties under continuous blood flows has been emphasized. however, existing methods exhibit limitations in terms of continuous and simultaneous monitoring. in this study, a simple method is suggested for simultaneously measuring four rheological properties (i.e., red blood cell (rbc) aggregation, blood viscosity, blood junction pressure, and rbc sedimentation) under a continuous blood flow. using the push-and-back mechanism, which comprises a co-flowing channel, a test chamber, and an air compliance unit (acu), blood is supplied to the test chamber and restored into the co-flowing channel periodically and reversely. first, rbc aggregation is quantified based on the intensity of the blood image in the test chamber. second, blood viscosity and blood junction pressure are determined by analyzing the interface in the co-flowing channel. lastly, rbc sedimentation is evaluated by analyzing the intensity of the blood image in the blood chamber. based on quantitative studies involving several vital factors, the tubing length of acu is set to l = 30 mm. the reference fluid (glycerin [20%]) is controlled in a periodic on–off manner (period = 240 s, and flow rate = 1 ml h−1). the blood flow rate is maintained at 1 ml h−1. subsequently, the present method is used to determine the rheological properties of several blood samples with different hematocrits or diluents. compared with previous studies, the present method yields sufficiently consistent trends with respect to the hematocrit level or concentration of dextran solution. the experimental results imply that the present method enables simultaneous and consistent measurements of four rheological properties of blood under continuous blood flows. this method can be regarded as a promising method for monitoring multiple rheological properties of blood circulating under an in vitro closed fluidic circuit.

a simple, inexpensive, reliable and environmentally friendly method based on vortex-assisted dispersive liquid–liquid microextraction combined with solidification of a floating organic drop (va-dllme-sfo) followed by high performance liquid chromatography with a diode array detector (hplc-dad) was developed to determine benzoic acid (ba) and sorbic acid (sa) in ketchup and powder bags of instant noodles. hydrophobic natural deep eutectic solvents (nadess), as the microextraction solvent, were prepared with ternary components. acetic acid can reduce the viscosity of hydrophobic nadess and vortex can promote the dispersion of nadess in aqueous solvents. in the dllme process, several key parameters were optimized, including the type and volume of hydrophobic nades, ph value, vortex time and salt content. meanwhile, these parameters were assessed using response surface methodology based on the box–behnken design (bbd). under optimal conditions, the developed method showed good linearity in the selected range (r2, 0.9997). the limits of detection were 0.2 μg ml−1 and 0.07 μg ml−1 for ba and sa, respectively. recoveries were in the range of 82.21% to 102.70% and the relative standard deviations (intra-day and inter-day precisions) were less than 5.66%. the proposed method was successful in analyzing ba and sa in ketchup and powder bags of instant noodles.

